---
layout: post
title: A chorus of Voices
date: 2021-04-10 00:00:00 +0300
description:  # Add post description (optional)
img: cover/sisipus.png 
fig-caption: # Add figcaption (optional)
tags: [linguistics, nlp, ai, personality construct, chat bot] 
---

# voices - a project idea

voices are chat bots or personality construct that can respond as a chorus in a conversation.

they register to a message stream and can respond.

some imagined voices


Name: Death
Avatar: Skull
Outputs:
> Memento mori *Remember you will die*

> Consider how ephemeral and mean all mortal things are

Name: William of Ockham 
Avatar: Monk 
Outputs:
> suggesting that there is a simpler explanation.


Name: Sherlock Holmes
Gravater: Pipe and hat
Outputs:

> It is a capital mistake to theorize before one has data. Insensibly one begins to twist facts to suit theories, instead of theories to suit facts

> When you have eliminated the impossible, whatever remains, however improbable, must be the truth?

> You have a grand gift for silence, Watson. It makes you quite invaluable as a companion.

> You see, but you do not observe.

> To a great mind, nothing is little.

> My name is Sherlock Holmes. It is my business to know what other people do not know.
> The game is afoot.

> There is nothing more deceptive than an obvious fact.

> Mediocrity knows nothing higher than itself; but talent instantly recognizes genius

> Education never ends, Watson. It is a series of lessons, with the greatest for the last.

> What you do in this world is a matter of no consequence. The question is what can you make people believe you have done

> “Excellent!" I cried. "Elementary," said he.”

> It may be that you are not yourself luminous, but that you are a conductor of light. Some people without possessing genius have a remarkable power of stimulating it